---
layout: standalone
title: GDP
published: true

---


<html>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
<head>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.1.3/css/bootstrap.css">
    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Domine|Roboto&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
	<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>

<body>
 <div class="container">
   <div class="row" style="padding-top: 1em;">
    <div class="col-12">

	<h1>India's GDP growth falls to 5.01%: Q1 2019-20 quarter</h1>

	<p>India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 5.01% in the Q1 2019-20 quarter, lower than the 5.83% growth in the previous quarter and lower than the 7.95% growth in the same quarter last year, new economic data released by the Central Statistics Office shows. This is the slowest growth in the last 25 quarters: GDP grew by 4.3%in Q4 2012-13, the previous low.  </p>

	<p>The decline comes on account of drop in the growth rate of 5 of the 8 sectors: Mining & Quarrying, Manufacturing, Construction, Financial, Real Estate and Professional Services and Public Administration, Defence and Other Services</p>

	<p>The previous financial year 2018-19 ended with an overall growth rate of 6.8%.</p>

	<p><iframe src="https://embed.loki.ai/state_of_economy/gdp_gva/gdp_quarter/GDP.html" style="width: 100%; height: 400px; border: 0px; overflow: hidden;" scrolling="no" scroll="no"></iframe></p>

	<p>GDP is the total value of all the goods and services produced in an economy. It is calculated from the demand side by mapping expenditure incurred by various spenders. It has four major components: investments, private consumption, government spending and net exports (exports minus imports).</p>

	<p>Here is the breakup:</p>

	<p><b>1. Private consumption (55% of the GDP):</b> The Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE), which reflects demand in the economy, grew by 3.14%. It grew by 7.31% in the same quarter last year.

		<br> This is the slowest quarterly growth for PFCE in the last 18 quarters. Previous low: 2.13% in Q3 2014-15.</p>

	<p><b>2. Private Investment (32.5% of GDP):</b> Gross Fixed Capital Formation Growth (GFCF), a key indicator of investment, grew by 4.04%, higher than 3.60% growth rate in the previous quarter and lower than 13.28% in the same quarter last fiscal. 

		</p>

	<p><b>3. Government Spending (11.8% of GDP):</b> Government Final Consumption Expenditure (GFCE) grew by 8.85% - lower from 13.11% in the last quarter and higher from 6.55% in the same quarter last fiscal. 

		 </p>

	<p><b>4. Net Exports:</b> Imports grew by 4.24% and exports grew by 

		5.70%.</p>

	<h3>GVA</h3>

	
	<p>GDP is a good indicator to compare economic growth of different countries. However, to compare growth across various sectors of the economy, the Gross Value Added (GVA) - GDP minus taxes - is a better metric.  </p>

	<p>
	GVA for the latest quarter stood at 4.94%, lower than 7.68% per cent growth in the same quarter last fiscal and lower than the 5.72% in the previous quarter. </p>

	<p><iframe src="https://embed.loki.ai/state_of_economy/gdp_gva/gva_quarter/Gross%20Value%20Added.html" style="width: 100%; height: 400px; border: 0px; overflow: hidden;" scrolling="no" scroll="no"></iframe></p>

	Among the eight sectors that are tracked, Manufacturing (0.58%) and Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing (2.04%) witnessed the slowest growth in GVA, whereas Public Administration, Defence and Other Services (8.5%) and Electricity, Gas, Water Supply & Other Utility (8.62%) grew the highest. 

	<hr>


	</div>
   </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>


