---
layout: standalone
title: RBI Consumer
published: true

---



<html>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
<head>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.1.3/css/bootstrap.css">
    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Domine|Roboto&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">

	<link href="../style.css" rel="stylesheet">

</head>

<body>
	
 <div class="container">
   <div class="row" style="padding-top: 1em;">
    <div class="col-12">


	<h1>Consumer Confidence falls in Sep, and the majority are worried about the economy: RBI survey</h1>

	<p>Consumer confidence in India dropped in Sep, and worringly, more people feel worse about the current state of the economy than those who are positive, according to new data from the Reserve Bank of India's quarterly consumer confidence survey. </p>

	<p>The current situation index (CSI), which reflects the current sentiment of consumers, fell to 89.4 in Sep from 95.7 in Jul. A value of less than 100 means the majority is pessimistic about economic prospects; value greater than 100 means otherwise. </p>

	<p>The future expectations index (FEI), which measures the future outlook of consumers, fell from 124.8 in Jul to 118.0 in Sep. This means that despite the decrease, majority of the consumers remain upbeat about future prospects. </p>

	<p></p>

	<p>The survey covers around 5000 respondents across metropolitan cities and measures public perception on the current and future expectations for five economic indicators: general state of the economy, employment prospects, price levels, own income, and spending. The "net public opinion" referred below is equal to the percentage of people who are positive minus those who are negative. </p>

	<p>
		<b>1. General state of the economy: </b>

		<p>More people feel negative about overall economic situation, and the sentiment has deteriorated further as compared to the last round. The net public opinion for this parameter was -14.4 in the latest round, lower from -1.0 in the previous round. 47.9% felt the economic condition in general had worsened and 31.8% said the situation would only get worse in the coming year. Overall, the majority is hopeful that the economic condition in general will improve in the next year, with net public opinion for future at 21.4.</p>


		<p><iframe src="https://embed.loki.ai/state_of_economy/ccs/general.html" style="width: 100%; height: 400px; border: 0px; overflow: hidden;" scrolling="no" scroll="no"></iframe></p>

	</p>


	<p>
		<b>2. Income Levels: </b>

		<p>More people feel negative about their income level, and the sentiment has deteriorated further as compared to the last round. The net public opinion for this parameter was -1.7 in the latest round, lower from 2.9 in the previous round. 26.7% felt thier own income had worsened and 9.6% said the situation would only get worse in the coming year. Overall, the majority is hopeful that thier own income will improve in the next year, with net public opinion for future at 43.4.</p>


		<p><iframe src="https://embed.loki.ai/state_of_economy/ccs/income.html" style="width: 100%; height: 400px; border: 0px; overflow: hidden;" scrolling="no" scroll="no"></iframe></p>

	</p>

	<p>
		<b>3. Employment Aspects: </b>

		<p>More people feel negative about their employment prospects, and the sentiment has deteriorated further as compared to the last round. The net public opinion for this parameter was -24.5 in the latest round, lower from -13.1 in the previous round. 52.5% felt their employment situation had worsened and 33.4% said the situation would only get worse in the coming year. Overall, the majority is hopeful that their employment situation will improve in the next year, with net public opinion for future at 17.8.</p>


		<p><iframe src="https://embed.loki.ai/state_of_economy/ccs/employment.html" style="width: 100%; height: 400px; border: 0px; overflow: hidden;" scrolling="no" scroll="no"></iframe></p>

	</p>


	</div>
   </div>
  </div>

</body>
</html>


